fun today I'm Bob from Paradise and
today we're going to have a look at this
Costas spiralis it's a spiral spiral
ginger there's a lot of different types
of ginger and if you look at this one it
has its flowers on the ends of the of
the branches and if looking closely here
we've got actually the colorful bract
which is a red bract
and each each of the blacks has got a
lot of scales like a pinecone and out of
the scales comes the flowers this one's
got two there's a couple more coming up
there but under each of these scales a
beautiful little pink flower will emerge
now on some of the other Kostis the
flowers are also on the ends and if you
look across the plant there you can see
all these little heads of flowers coming
back which have individual flowers
coming out on and one at a time at every
scale have a flair so some some of the
Costas will have their flowers right at
the base of the plant different shape
altogether might be green with white
flowers and yellow but this one costs a
spiralis
spiral ginger and there are a few types
of spiral ginger not all the same as
this one but this is a Costas Stralis
and health a really interesting thing
about this plant when this flower dies
off if you might see this one here see
the flowers died off here here's a dead
flower down in here when the flower door
is often look it actually grows these
new plants and the weight as it grows
the new plants and you see they've got
roots and all if we just come in closely
here and see the book roots after its
flared there's new plants form on the
end and the weight this is the way these
can multiply not that they're a problem
because they do it slowly but the weight
of it brings it right down to the ground
and the new plants will they got roots
on them they'll grow if we come over
just over here we can see here's one
here it's got four or five new plants on
it so there's a good way to get new
plants and the weight of it is bringing
at the end of the ground
as it hits the ground like this one here
as you can see this old cane here and
here's a new plant that hit the ground
and new plants are coming up so that's
amazing thing and quite a few of the
gingers will actually do that not all of
them but quite a few so today we've had
a look at this beautiful ginger suitable
for warm areas hates frost if you've got
frost don't worry about it if you've got
a warm frost free area generally along
the coast or a very protected spot
somewhere this is this is a good guy
likes moisture but all gingers can take
a period of dry because they're
accustomed to a wet season and a pretty
tough plant you'll find they also grow
for cutting this particular ginger not
many gingers do but this one does there
ya have a good look at that you can find
that's a really beautiful plant right
down a bank they do get to about 2
meters high and a very popular plant
throughout the warm areas of Australia
that's all we've got for today
until next time we'll catch you later